cheatsheets/Maven/.cheatsheet.md, before:

# Maven

## Tests

* `-Dmaven.test.skip=true` # doesn't compile or execute the tests.  
* `-DskipTests` # the tests get compiled, but not executed (can also be set to false)  
* `-Dtest=testClassName` # Run a single test class (may also need -DfailIfNoTests=false)
<!-- ref: https://stackoverflow.com/a/21933970  -->

## Local Repo
```bash
# Use a different location for the local repo
-Dmaven.repo.local=./my-maven-repo

# Remove all project dependencies from the local repository and re-resolve them
mvn dependency:purge-local-repository

# Purge from local repo...
mvn dependency:purge-local-repository
    # everything under a group or subgroup
    # (ex: everything under org.springframework, incl. org.springframework.boot)
    -DmanualInclude=org.springframework
    # Purge Specific Version
    -DmanualInclude=org.springframework.boot:spring-boot:2.7.18
    # Purge Specific file (note - need to use full file name)
    -DmanualInclude=org.springframework.boot:spring-boot:2.7.18:spring-boot-2.7.18.jar
```

## Download artifact
```bash
# Download latest release artifact (incl. transitive dependencies) into local repo
mvn dependency:get -Dartifact=org.projectlombok:lombok:RELEASE:jar
    -Dtransitive=false # Do not download transitive dependencies

# Download artifact to specific location on local drive
mvn dependency:copy -DartifactId=org.jacoco:org.jacoco.cli:0.8.8:jar:nodeps -DoutputDirectory=~/tmp
    -Dmdep.stripVersion=true     # Strip the version from the filename
    -Dmdep.stripClassifier=true  # Strip the classifier (if exists) from the filename
```

## Dependency Tree

```bash
# Create dep tree files for current directory
mvn clean dependency:tree -DoutputFile=mvn-dep-tree && mvn dependency:resolve-plugins -DoutputFile=mvn-plugin-tree

# Create dep tree files for all pom.xml 1 level down
find -maxdepth 2 -name pom.xml -execdir mvn clean dependency:tree -DoutputFile=mvn-dep-tree \; -execdir mvn dependency:resolve-plugins -DoutputFile=mvn-plugin-tree \;

# Search dep tree files
grep --color=always --include mvn-dep-tree --include mvn-plugin-tree "SEARCH_PATTERN" -r * | sed -re 's/[| +\\]*- / / '

# Count unique dependencies matching search pattern
grep --color=always --include mvn-dep-tree --include mvn-plugin-tree "SEARCH_PATTERN" -r -h * | sed -re 's/[| +\\]*- / / ' | sort | uniq -c

# Cleanup dep tree files
find -name mvn-dep-tree -exec rm {} \; && find -name mvn-plugin-tree -exec rm {} \;
```

## Use maven with different repos
* Configure profiles in settings.xml
* Activate profile with `mvn -P profile2`

Ref: https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-profiles.html

## Maven Wrapper credential setup
Configure MVNW_USERNAME and MVNW_PASSWORD env vars

<!-- --- -->
<!-- ## Resolve all dependencies -->
<!-- mvn dependency:resolve dependency:resolve-plugins -->

Commit message:

Add section on upgrading plugins to Maven cheatsheet

cheatsheets/Maven/.cheatsheet.md, after:

# Maven

## Tests

* `-Dmaven.test.skip=true` # doesn't compile or execute the tests.  
* `-DskipTests` # the tests get compiled, but not executed (can also be set to false)  
* `-Dtest=testClassName` # Run a single test class (may also need -DfailIfNoTests=false)
<!-- ref: https://stackoverflow.com/a/21933970  -->

## Local Repo
```bash
# Use a different location for the local repo
-Dmaven.repo.local=./my-maven-repo

# Remove all project dependencies from the local repository and re-resolve them
mvn dependency:purge-local-repository

# Purge from local repo...
mvn dependency:purge-local-repository
    # everything under a group or subgroup
    # (ex: everything under org.springframework, incl. org.springframework.boot)
    -DmanualInclude=org.springframework
    # Purge Specific Version
    -DmanualInclude=org.springframework.boot:spring-boot:2.7.18
    # Purge Specific file (note - need to use full file name)
    -DmanualInclude=org.springframework.boot:spring-boot:2.7.18:spring-boot-2.7.18.jar
```

## Download artifact
```bash
# Download latest release artifact (incl. transitive dependencies) into local repo
mvn dependency:get -Dartifact=org.projectlombok:lombok:RELEASE:jar
    -Dtransitive=false # Do not download transitive dependencies

# Download artifact to specific location on local drive
mvn dependency:copy -DartifactId=org.jacoco:org.jacoco.cli:0.8.8:jar:nodeps -DoutputDirectory=~/tmp
    -Dmdep.stripVersion=true     # Strip the version from the filename
    -Dmdep.stripClassifier=true  # Strip the classifier (if exists) from the filename
```

## Dependency Tree

```bash
# Create dep tree files for current directory
mvn clean dependency:tree -DoutputFile=mvn-dep-tree && mvn dependency:resolve-plugins -DoutputFile=mvn-plugin-tree

# Create dep tree files for all pom.xml 1 level down
find -maxdepth 2 -name pom.xml -execdir mvn clean dependency:tree -DoutputFile=mvn-dep-tree \; -execdir mvn dependency:resolve-plugins -DoutputFile=mvn-plugin-tree \;

# Search dep tree files
grep --color=always --include mvn-dep-tree --include mvn-plugin-tree "SEARCH_PATTERN" -r * | sed -re 's/[| +\\]*- / / '

# Count unique dependencies matching search pattern
grep --color=always --include mvn-dep-tree --include mvn-plugin-tree "SEARCH_PATTERN" -r -h * | sed -re 's/[| +\\]*- / / ' | sort | uniq -c

# Cleanup dep tree files
find -name mvn-dep-tree -exec rm {} \; && find -name mvn-plugin-tree -exec rm {} \;
```

## Find Upgradeable Plugins
#### Display plugins that can be upgraded to a new release version based on the [required maven version](https://maven.apache.org/enforcer/enforcer-rules/requireMavenVersion.html) defined in the POM
`mvn versions:display-plugin-updates -DgenerateBackupPoms=false "-Dmaven.version.ignore=.+-SNAPSHOT,.+-M\d+,.+-(alpha|beta).+" -DprocessUnboundPlugins=true`

(The error "Project requires an incorrect minimum version of Maven" means that the some plugin(s) version requires a newer version of maven than the minimum defined.  The output does not display which plugins are the problem (tip: temporarily bump the required version of maven to a previous version and run command to see what plugins need to be be downgraded))


#### Create report that shows all plugins with newer release versions (regardless of required version of Maven).  Report viewable at `target/reports`  
`mvn versions:plugin-updates-report -DonlyUpgradable=true -DonlyProjectPlugins=true "-Dmaven.version.ignore=.+-SNAPSHOT,.+-M\d+,.+-(alpha|beta).+"`


## Use maven with different repos
* Configure profiles in settings.xml
* Activate profile with `mvn -P profile2`

Ref: https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-profiles.html

## Maven Wrapper credential setup
Configure MVNW_USERNAME and MVNW_PASSWORD env vars

<!-- --- -->
<!-- ## Resolve all dependencies -->
<!-- mvn dependency:resolve dependency:resolve-plugins -->
